# Wayanad Landslide
The Wayanad landslide occurred on [30/7/24], causing significant damage to the region. This natural disaster, driven by heavy rainfall, led to massive soil erosion and debris flow, affecting numerous homes and infrastructure.

In the 48 hours leading up to the morning of July 30, the Mundakkai region in Kerala’s Wayanad district saw a staggering 572 mm of rainfall. Hillsides collapsed as a result, sending a torrent of mud, water, and boulders crashing down. At least 250 people died in the landslide. Unofficial estimates put the death toll as scores remained missing a week after the calamity. An estimated 5,000 people are affected. The tragedy has triggered a debate around the way climate change impacts have been ravaging Kerala in particular and the Western Ghats in general. A focal point is the report of the Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel, popularly known as the Gadgil committee report. But the government faces criticism for not doing enough on climate mitigation and adaptation measures, especially the way it treated the Gadgil report. The report proposed stricter regulation of development activities in these zones, including restrictions on building and infrastructure development. Another committee, headed by K. Kasturirangan, was formed to examine the report and suggest a way forward as the proposal to curb development activities was found problematic. Climate change is turning costly for Kerala in terms of human lives and economic loss. The 2018 floods alone cost the State over Rs.40,000 crore. Fast-tracking climate adaptation and mitigation efforts is, therefore, crucial, and early warning systems are thought to be crucial to such efforts. Entire families have been washed away, and there are many families with only one person left alive. Bodies and body parts were being unearthed throughout the week following the disaster, and the search and rescue operations continued as the magazine went to press. More than 200 bodies were recovered from the Chaliyar river in the low-lying areas of Pothukallu in the nearby Malappuram district, which lies on the other side of the mountains. The Chaliyar flows 30-40 km away from Mundakkai and Chooralmala.

IF YOU CAN..... SAVE WAYANAD ❤️❤️❤️
